Let's do another couple of subnets and I'll explain why in a second.
So I'm going to throw this one in here,
and I'm going to do another one down here,
and I'm going to rename this and I'm going to call them a private Subnet
1 and 2, private Subnet 1.
These are just labels so that we can tell them apart.
So it's not really critical at this time,
and after all, it's just a diagram,
we're not really writing a specific infrastructure as code just yet,
so bear with me here.
So we have private Subnet 1 and 2 and the other ones I'll call public.
Now, like I said, that's just a label distinction right now.
I wonder what can we do with that information.
So the real goal here is to use the IP addresses in
this subnets as our key for routing traffic.
Let me explain what that means.
If you have a routing table,
you can use that routing table to say, "Hey,
I want this traffic to stay within my VPC or
this traffic to just go to this one subnet or to that subnet."
That's the basics of networking.
What we do with that is we use it as an element of security.
So in our private subnets,
we're going to deploy, let's say, a database,
something that has very sensitive and critical data for your business,
you don't want that exposed to the Internet.
However, if you have
a web server showing the applications and talking about your company,
obviously, you want people in
the outside world to be able to see this information and say,
"Hey, this is a public facing server.
We want everybody to be able to see this server."
You would put a such a server and what we call a public subnet.
In that subnet, what you're going to have is
this server running and receiving inbound Internet traffic from any source.
Obviously, as a web server,
you want it to be accessible from anywhere.
However, like I mentioned,
you don't want that to happen to
your database or anything that's sensitive for your company.
You don't want that exposed to the Internet.
So there comes the concept of a private subnet.
This is where you're going to deploy your sensitive data,
and then we're going to use routing rules and
security group which we're going to introduce here in a moment,
and those will help you block access to those things.